docs(site): add usage guidelines WO1 (#1019)
ec-europa/europa-component-library: src/website/src/pages/ec/components/button/docs/usage.mdx

| Search button               | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Search_Default.png)    | use exclusively for the search function.                                                                                                                                                            |

## When not to use

For navigational purposes. If the action triggered sends a user to a different page, opens up a page in a new tab or jump to another section within the current page, use <Link to="/ec/components/navigation/link/usage/">links</Link> instead because these actions don’t change anything on the website’s state.
The user is passive, browsing through content (read only).

## DO's

- Avoid using icons on buttons
- When you do need icons:

  - For LTR languages, left aligned icon flows better with the text.

    illustration: Primary button, label "Approve", icon left "check"

  - Place icons to the right for buttons with multiple status ex: expand/collapse buttons

    illustration: Secondary button, label "Expand" icon right "arrow-down"

## DON'Ts

> - Use button for navigation, use <Link to="/ec/components/navigation/link/usage/">links</Link> instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use button for navigation, use <Link to="/ec/components/navigation/link/usage/">links</Link> instead.
```
- Use too many buttons on a page.

order: 1
---

import { Link, Paragraph } from '@ecl/website-components';

<Paragraph size="lead">

>   Use a button to trigger and carry out an action on a page.

Reviewer: Use a button to carry out an action.

>   Use a button to trigger and carry out an action on a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Use a button to trigger and carry out an action on a page.
```Use a button to carry out an action.

>   Use a button to trigger and carry out an action on a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Use a button to carry out an action.
```

</Paragraph>

## Anatomy

> | Name  | Mandatory |

Reviewer: | Name  | Mandatory | Optional |

> | Name  | Mandatory |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name  | Mandatory | Optional |
```

Author: What's the point of adding an "optional" column.
What isn't "mandatory" is optional already.

| ----- | :-------: |
| Label |     X     |

> | Icon  |           |

Reviewer: | Icon  |           |     X     |

> | Icon  |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Icon  |           |     x      |
```

Author: What is the meaning of your suggested change? 
Do you want to make the icon mandatory? it's not.

Reviewer: ****I was thinking to add a column to say "Optional" so the user knows to use of icons is optional. Not mandatory. Visually to have the word optional makes it more clear...not everyone is capable of comprehending the table...no? :-)

> Buttons are defined by 3 major attributes:

Reviewer: Buttons have 3 variations:

> Buttons are defined by 3 major attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### Button labels

Reviewer: Button with label

> ### Button labels

Reviewer: Use of labels

> ### Button labels

Reviewer: ### Use of labels

> ### Button labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Use of labels
```

> Button labels tell users what will happen when they click the button.

Reviewer: Button labels show users what will happen when the button is clicked.

> Button labels tell users what will happen when they click the button.

Reviewer: Labels show users what will happen when they click the button

> Button labels tell users what will happen when they click the button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels show users what will happen when they click the button.
```

- Should be clear and distinct.
- Use verbs that describe the action, such as Send, Add or Delete.

> - Keep it short, no more than 3 words.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Should be as short as possible, no more than 2 words.
```

Author: "keep it short" is shorter than "should be as short as possible" ;-)
Why no more than 2 words? this is very restrictive compared to other design systems

Reviewer: Keep it short, no more than 3 words.

> ### Button icons

Reviewer: Button with icons.

> ### Button icons

Reviewer: Button with icon

> ### Button icons

Reviewer: Use of icons

> ### Button icons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use of icons
```

> Choose an icon that reinforce or clarify the meaning of a label in that particular context.

Reviewer: Button with an icon indicates specific actions.

> Choose an icon that reinforce or clarify the meaning of a label in that particular context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Button with an icon indicates a specific action and it reinforces or clarifies the meaning of a label.
```

Icons can be on right or left of your label.

### Colour

Ensure that the button background colour or label colour in the case of the ghost button provides sufficient contrast with the context/section background.

## When to use

> To trigger an action. _ Actions which affect the website's state are buttons. _

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To trigger an action. The most important actions you want users to take on your website. Make sure they look clickable.
```

Author: This change the meaning of the sentence.
The proposed sentence seems wrong. What do we do for less important action if we can't use buttons?

Reviewer: Buttons are used to perform an action, such as begin a new task, to show the next step, or to submit a form.

> Actions include: Search, Submit... etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Search, Submit, Download... etc.
```

Author: Download is a link, not a button.

Reviewer: How to create download button https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_download_button.asp

Author: fun fact, the provided demo isn't working (isn't downloading) because button aren't made to download files.
We should use the download attribute made specifically to download files.
It only exists for links https://www.w3schools.com/tags/att_a_download.asp (notice this is the same source than your example), https://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-html5-20141028/links.html#downloading-resources

Reviewer: https://styleguide.mailchimp.com/web-elements/ 
Buttons should always contain actions. The language should be clear and concise. Capitalize every word, including articles. It’s OK to use an ampersand in button copy.
so download isn't an action? If we want to compromise, we can use "search, submit, subscribe, login" instead.
Below is another reasoning...but I am willing to let go...
"A download button can make your website look significantly more professional than simply offering your download through links"

Author: 99% of the time the "login" will simply navigate to another page containing a form. 
While it's ok to use buttons in forms it's not to use button in replacement of the link that leads to form page.
For instance on https://github.com "sign in" is a link, then it leads to a page with a sign in form which in turn contain a "sign in" button.
It's not about letting go it's about using things for what they really are and not being deceptive to our users.
https://adamsilver.io/articles/but-sometimes-buttons-look-like-links/
Again in the case of downloading files, the W3C standardised the "download" attribute which is the proper, accessible way to download files and it exists only for links.

Reviewer: <button type="submit"> "submit" is also a button. Including login, register,..I was reading the same article you just listed above.
<type="button">  are used to create features...
Call to action, just regular links styled as buttons. It is visually weakened if we just use it as a link.
Links allow users to navigate to pages or locations within a page. We can open a link in a new tab, copy the address or bookmark it. Buttons don't work this way.
Here "cancel""add single comment""start a review" are all buttons. It is not easy to write about buttons.

Reviewer 2: > We can open a link in a new tab, copy the address or bookmark it. Buttons don't work this way.

that's a very good reason to NOT style links as buttons, isn't it?

Reviewer: Yes sir. The task is to enforce it. Only call to action is visually styled as a button.

Reviewer 2: > Differentiating calls to action
> If you’ve been nodding along so far, then you’ll probably agree that calls to action need to stand out. But that they also need to look different to buttons to signify their true behaviour of a link.

— https://medium.com/simple-human/but-sometimes-links-look-like-buttons-and-buttons-look-like-links-9b371c57b3d2

CTA are mostly links. We could have a variant of the "link" component called "CTA", which would look a bit like a button, while being visually different (bigger, bolder, different colours, I don't know).

Now, there could be a case where we want a CTA button, e.g. a "subscribe to the newsletter" button in a form (if "subscribe to the newsletter" is the main action and leads to a conversion). Then maybe we will need to keep a CTA variant of the button. I'm not 100% sure. Wouldn't the primary button be a better candidate here?

Reviewer: Can we actually table this topic for the time being due to our priorities and todos are still outstanding? We will improve ourselves along the way or you see this as a blocker?

An action is performed when the user interact actively with the website, ex: the user post a comment.

> ECL has five buttons with different visual designs to make a distinction between the kind of action the button will carry out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 5 types of buttons with 5 different use cases.
```

Author: This changes the meaning. We have 5 buttons for 5 different cases.

Reviewer: There are five button styles. (Bootstrap)

| Ghost button                | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Ghost_Default.png)     | When an action does not require dominance on a page. Often use next to a primary action ex: On a form context/section "Submit" as primary, "Cancel" as a ghost.                                     |
| Search button               | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Search_Default.png)    | use exclusively for the search function.                                                                                                                                                            |

## When not to use

For navigational purposes. If the action triggered sends a user to a different page, opens up a page in a new tab or jump to another section within the current page, use <Link to="/ec/components/navigation/link/usage/">links</Link> instead because these actions don’t change anything on the website’s state.

> The user is passive, browsing through content (read only).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should not use too many buttons on a page.
```

Author: This removes an important point.
The suggested replacement is more a "Don't" than a "when not to use"

## DO's

- Avoid using icons on buttons
- When you do need icons:

>   - Prefer left icons (for LTR languages) as they better line up and flow with the text alongside them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For LTR languages, left aligned icon flows better with the text.
```

    illustration: Primary button, label "Approve", icon left "check"

>   - Use right icons for buttons with multiple status ex: expand/collapse buttons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Place icons to the right for buttons with multiple status ex: expand/collapse buttons
```

  Use a button to trigger and carry out an action on a page.
</Paragraph>

## Anatomy

Buttons use 3 major attributes:

- Labels
  - Should be clear and distinct.
  - Use verbs to describe the action performed when interacting with the button.
  - Keep it short, no more than 3 words and only capitalise the first word.

> - Colour

Reviewer 3: The color is set by the button variant. As far as I know this is not possible/recommanded to change it

Author: Still the point is valid, I guess what the author meant is "in the case of ghost button"...

  - Choose a colour that provides sufficient contrast between the label and background.
- Icon
  - Choose an icon that reinforce or clarify the meaning of a label in that particular context.

| Name  | Mandatory | Restrictions |
| ----- | :-------: | -----------: |
| Label |     X     |              |

> | Icon  | centered  |              |

Reviewer 3: That's not very clear for the icon. The columns says "mandatory", so what is the "centered" for?

Author: I have no idea how this ended up here :)

The button with the strongest visual weight will attract the most attention.

| Button name                 | Visual style                                                                                            | Usage                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Call-to-action (CTA) button | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_CTA_Default.png)       | funnel users into the most important action for your business ex: "Apply for funding" or "Watch live streaming". Limit to one CTA on a given page, the same CTA can be repeated within in the page. |

> | Primary button              | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Primary_Default.png)   | for primary actions in forms, ex: "Log in", "Get funding", "Register", "Submit a request", should appear only few occurence on a page, ex: only 1 primary button per form                           |

Reviewer 3: this is the only button where we talk about forms. All other buttons are related to page.

| Secondary button            | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Secondary_Default.png) | secondary action that users can perform on the page and it can be used multiple times per page.                                                                                                     |

> | Ghost button                | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Ghost_Default.png)     | when an action does not require dominance on a page, ex: "Cancel" a form.                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: difference between secondary and ghost button isn't very explicit. Maybe a few examples for secondary may help

| Search button               | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Search_Default.png)    | use exclusively for the search function.                                                                                                                                                            |

### Button labels

> Button labels tell users what will happen when they click the button. Use verbs that describe the action, such as Send, Add or Delete. Do not use capitalization on buttons (only the first word in a phrase and proper nouns are capitalized) and no more than three words for button labels.

Reviewer 3: That's basically the same text as in anatomy

### Button icons

> It is possible to add an icon to a button to better illustrate the action.

Reviewer 3: we could add that the icon may be displayed before or after the label

Author: then we should explain what's the difference or at least provide guidelines on when,why to use icons left or right. I don't now any difference so far.

| Button name           | Visual style                                                                                               |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Call-to-action button | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_CTA-Icon_Default.png)     |
| Primary button        | ![Button Image](https://inno-ecl.s3.amazonaws.com/media/images/EC/Buttons/Button_Primary_icon_Default.png) |

> ## When not to use Don't use buttons

Reviewer 3: missing new line here I guess
